# Selecting Strong and Exogenous Instruments via Structural Error Criteria

This repository contains the latest version of the working paper titled ''Selecting Strong and Exogenous Instruments via Structural Error Criteria'' by Hippolyte Boucher. Replication files for both the simulations and application are at disposal. This working paper follows the CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0 license, it can be distributed for noncommercial purposes only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. Contact the writer at **Hippolyte.Boucher@outlook.com**. 

## Abstract
Instrumental variables (IVs) allow consistent estimation of the causal effect of endogenous variables on outcomes. However if IVs are not exogenous and jointly strong, estimators are inconsistent and t-test based Gaussian confidence intervals are invalid. Thus in this paper I design a procedure to select a subset of strong and exogenous instruments among a larger set of potentially weak and / or endogenous instruments in a linear setting. To do so I formally build losses, risks and risk estimators which are based on the structural errors being implicitly minimized when performing IV estimation. I shed light into the empirical and theoretical properties of the risks and find that IV subset selection via risk estimators minimization consistently select strong and exogenous subsets of IVs for a large class of IV estimators. More specifically, efficiency and consistency results are established by considering standard asymptotics, weak IV asymptotics and locally invalid IV asymptotics, while maintaining the total number of IVs fixed. I confirm the performances of my IV selection procedures against competing ones' using Monte Carlo simulations and lastly I estimate the causal effect of pre-trial detention on offenders guilt by selecting judge dummy IVs in the first stage.
